# Project-01-Employment-Data

* I wanted to look a employment trends based on age demographics. There are two primary sources for this data in the US: the Bureau of Labor Statistics(BLS) and the FRED database from the the St. Louis branch of the US Federal Reserve. After inspecting the two databases, the data I wanted and the functionality of the database pointed to the BLS. The BLS API had example code to perform a request, which I used to pull data on persons employed in six age groups from 2009 to 2018. The API request was relatively straighforward but manipulating the json data into an orgainzed, usable dataframe was more complicated. Once I formed a df that was usable, I saaved it to a csv file. This proved beneficial as I started receiving messages I had used my daily allotments of daily requests (even though I hadn't made any that day). I started a new notebook and used the csv file to further clean and then analyze the data. This proved much easier to use.

* I had several questions I wanted to answer: what was the overall trend in employment, both by age group and overall, what was the percentage of emplyment by age group and has this changed, and what trends might look like moving forward. Line charts show the employment trends clearly. Pie charts breakdown percentage employment by age group. Regression may show trends.

* All age groups experienced and increase in employment execept the 45-54 group. This was unexpected as this is typically considered part of the peak time frame for employment and earning over a lifetime. Older groups (55-64 and 65 and over) experienced the largest increase in employment and percentage of the population employed. Again, this was taken from the 45-54 group. The other groups remained relatively stable. Total employment was decreasing early in the time period (2009-2010) but has been steadily increasing since. Regression analysis points to ths trend continuing. To much weight on this analysis should be cautioned against however, as time is independent and future trends in employment do not necissarily depend on what has happenbed in the past.
